[IMP] install/maintain: update info about upgrade process on Odoo.sh (#1694)
odoo/documentation: content/administration/upgrade/odoo_sh.rst

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade:

=======
Odoo.sh
=======

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade/overview:

Overview
========

Odoo.sh is integrated with the upgrade platform. A testing phase can be done on a staging branch

> allowing to upgrade a chosen backup.

Reviewer: the latest backup ?

> The upgrade menu is available in the branches menu for valid project with a valid production build.

Reviewer: for valid project**s**, ou for **a** valid project

.. image:: process/odoo_sh_menu.png
   :align: center
   :class: w-50
   :alt: Click on the upgrade menu

The suggested upgrade steps on Odoo.sh are:

> * On development branch: update your custom code to keep them compatible with the new version and thoroughly test it.

Reviewer: pick one of both:
On **a** development branch:
On development branch**es**:

> * Switch that branch to staging and upgrade the last daily production backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Switch that branch to staging, upgrade the last daily production backup and test it.
```

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab is available in the branches view. It is only available for valid
   projects with a valid production build.

.. image:: odoo_sh/odoo-sh-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the upgrade menu

The suggested upgrade steps on Odoo.sh are:

#. On a :guilabel:`Development` branch, upgrade your custom modules to keep them compatible with the
   new version and thoroughly **test them**.
#. Switch that branch to the :guilabel:`Staging` branch, **upgrade** the last daily production
   backup and **test it**. Write upgrade scripts if necessary.
#. Trigger the production upgrade from your :guilabel:`Production` branch and sit tight.

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade/custom-modules:

Upgrade your custom modules
===========================

The first step is to upgrade your custom modules to keep them compatible with the new version. Fork
your :guilabel:`Production` branch in the :guilabel:`Development` stage, then go to the settings of
your :guilabel:`Development` branch and select the Odoo version you target. If needed, modify your
code to be compatible with the new version. Make sure to **test** your features are still working

> correctly.

Reviewer 2: I don't think the use of guilabel is 100% accurate. We use it when we refer to a specific element of the user interface. If you refer to a concept, a name, but not a graphical element, then it shouldn't be a guilabel.

**restore** of the upgraded backup occurs, and an **update of all the custom modules** happens. This
allows you to quickly iterate on your custom modules upgrade scripts. The log file of the upgrade
process can be found at `~/logs/upgrade.log` in your newly upgraded staging build.

.. note::
   - The **special upgrade mode** is automatically closed after 30 days.
   - It may happen that custom modules are no longer needed after an upgrade. Custom modules in the
     upgraded database are set to be updated. If the modules are missing in the code, the update
     fails, thus failing the whole process. An empty module with a manifest and possibly some custom
     upgrade script are necessary to clean up the database. The complete removal of the module has
     to be handled afterwards.

Functionally test your upgraded database
========================================

Now that the test upgraded database is available on your staging branch, **thoroughly test it** and
make sure everything runs as it's supposed to. Once you are satisfied with the result, you are ready
to upgrade your production database.

Production upgrade
==================

> Once you are happy with your testing, you can start the process on the :guilabel:`Production` branch.

Reviewer 2: - 100th character length ^^'

On your :guilabel:`Production` branch, go to the :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab, select the
:guilabel:`targeted version` and click on the :guilabel:`start Upgrade` button.

.. image:: odoo_sh/odoo-sh-prod.png
   :class: w-50
   :align: center

The actual process is **triggered as soon as you push a new commit** in your branch. Make sure you
are pushing code that is compatible with the new version. For example by merging the code from your
upgraded staging branch.

.. note::

>    You can see the progress of the upgrade going to the :guilabel:`Upgrade` menu of the main branch.

Reviewer 2: - missing the word "by"
- nitpicking but "Upgrade" is a menu so it could be a menuselection here

.. image:: odoo_sh/odoo-sh-progress.png
   :class: w-75
   :align: center

.. important::
   Your database is unavailable throughout the process.

.. note::
   If anything goes wrong, the platform will automatically revert the upgrade,

>    same as for a regular update. In case of success, a backup will always be made.

Reviewer 2: avoid the use of future tense for expected behavior that is not set in the relative future.

The update of your custom modules must be successful to complete the entire upgrade process. Make
sure the status of your staging upgrade is :guilabel:`successful` before trying it in production.

.. note::
   It may happen that custom modules are no longer needed after an upgrade. Custom modules in the

>    upgraded database are set to be updated. If the modules are missing in the code, the update fails,

Reviewer 2: - 100th character length ^^'

=======
Odoo.sh
=======

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade/overview:

Overview
========

Odoo.sh is integrated with the upgrade platform. A testing phase can be done on a :guilabel:`Staging`
branch allowing to upgrade the latest backup.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab is available in the branches view for valid projects with a valid
   production build.

.. image:: odoo_sh/odoo-sh-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Click on the upgrade menu

The suggested upgrade steps on Odoo.sh are:

- On a :guilabel:`Development` branch, update your custom code to keep them compatible with the new
  version and thoroughly **test it**.
- Switch that branch to the :guilabel:`Staging` branch, **upgrade** the last daily production
  backup and **test it**. Write ugrade scripts if necessary.
- Trigger the production upgrade from your :guilabel:`Production` branch and sit tight.

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade/custom-modules:

Upgrade your custom modules
===========================

> The first step is to upgrade your custom modules to keep them compatible with the new version. Go to
> the settings of your :guilabel:`Development` branch and select the Odoo version you target. If
> needed, update your code to match the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to upgrade your custom modules to keep them compatible with the new version. Fork
your :guilabel:`Production` branch in the :guilabel:`Development` stage, then to
the settings of your :guilabel:`Development` branch and select the Odoo version you target. If
needed, modify your code to be compatible with the new version. Make sure to
**test** your features are still working correctly.
```

.. note::
   Depending on your contract, the upgrade of your custom modules can be done by yourself, by your
   Partner or by Odoo (if you hold a subscription including 'Maintenance of Customizations').

.. _odoo_sh_upgrade/testing-phase:

Test your upgraded database on a staging branch
===============================================

Create a :guilabel:`Staging` branch to run the upgraded database.

Either make sure your production branch's code is compatible between the two Odoo versions and fork
your production branch, or make a new staging branch containing the upgraded code.

Go in the :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab and select the :guilabel:`target version`. Then, click on
:guilabel:`Test Upgrade`.

.. image:: odoo_sh/odoo-sh-staging.png
   :class: w-50
   :align: center

The **latest production daily automatic backup** is sent to the
`upgrade platform <https://www.upgrade.odoo.com>`_ to start the automatic test upgrade process.

.. note::

>    You can see the progress of the upgrade going to the :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab of the branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can follow the upgrade process by going to the :guilabel:`Upgrade` tab of the branch.
```
